---
created_at: 2010-02-04 17:44:28+00:00
updated_at: 2010-02-04 17:44:28+00:00
type: post
kind: article
layout: blog_post
title: 'Project Hermes: Broad Overview'
tags:
- ham-radio
- project-hermes
---

For the past few months, the little free time that I haven't spent with friends
or playing with my personal servers has been put towards working out the
details of a rather ambitious plan for my car. The goal? Set my car up as a
mobile internet relay for emergency use. I've named this project Hermes. My
naming scheme for all of my projects is based off mythological figures, folk
lores and beasts. It's a nice broad name set and I can usually associate the
goal of the project with a well known (or not) story. Hermes, messenger of the
gods, patron of boundaries and those that cross them. Hermes often helped
travelers have a safe and easy journey. Perfect.

Now on to some details, what do I want out of this project? What are my
requirements? I want to be able to quickly establish reliable mobile short
range and long range communication which could be brought into an area where
other more common forms of communication have failed. This means having a broad
range of mobile wireless transmitting and receiving stations built into my car
and ready to be turned on at a moments notice.

Natural disasters cause a lot of chaos and disorganization. Priority should
always be the welfare of those affected including getting water, food, medical
supplies and shelter to those without. To accomplish this organization and
communication needs to be in place to facilitate people communicating these
needs. That is one reason why I'm doing this, the second being that it's just
plain cool.

The most prevalent form of communication in use today is the Internet. Even our
phones have started using the Internet as a backbone for their infrastructure.
However, finding an internet connection around an event such as hurricane
Katrina is impossible due to the sheer volume of damage. What's the solution?
There is a means of communication which seems to be overlooked more than not by
most people; HAM radio.

HAM or Amateur radio allows for extremely long range communication (in certain
cases to the other side of the world). Amateur radio operates in many
frequencies all of which you are required to have a license to transmit on.
Licenses are fairly easy to acquire.

I learned the material the test covers in about three hours and paid $30 to get
my Technician license. Amateur radio is usually used as the core means to
communicate during national events due to the lack of infrastructure and long
range that is provided by such a setup. Perfect for this project.

As a short range communication, two commercial access points with custom
firmware should do the trick. One for broadcasting and one for connecting to
additional access points. I want to be able to connect to additional access
points to provide an internet connection to the car's future internal network,
and through my car to become a hub for packet radio communications over Amateur
radio.

This won't provide a lot of bandwidth (about 9600bps) which after over head and
protocol communications works out to about 750 characters a second of
communications. That may seem slow but thats a hell of a lot faster than trying
to communicate the same message via voice.

In the event that cell service is available outside of the affected area but
still within range of ham radio, a cell phone with a data connection and a
bluetooth link can be the source of internet rather than leeching off a
stranger's wifi.

To handle the routing of data, packet radio modem, bluetooth and wireless link,
I'm going to need some kind of dedicated computer. Adding all of these devices
to my car causes a problem. Power. Remote communications back to the hub can be
accomplished using a handheld ham radio and a laptop computer.

Since I can't rely on the electrical grid during a natural disaster this means
I'll need a way to charge their batteries from my base station, which is
another major power drain. I could leave my car on to run the alternator and
power the devices that way but I would quickly run out of gas and my car's
battery wouldn't hold up for extended problems, leaving my stranded. My
solution to this is a second electrical grid in my car.

A few deep-cycle marine batteries in the trunk (where I've decided all of this
equipment is going to end up) and some high efficiency solar panels on the
roof, combined with an AC charger for when I do have the luxury of plugging in
should be enough to power a communications hub for an extended period of time.

So that's where I'm at. I've tentatively started pricing out solar panels and
in-car ham radios for the project. Stay tuned! This is going to be an
interesting ride...

