---
title: "About Myself"
type: page
---

I live and work out of the Burlington, VT area though I tend to travel all over
the state and to a lesser extent New England. I went to school at [Vermont
Technical College](http://www.vtc.edu/) for Software Engineering which was
followed up as being their Network & Systems Administrator for half a decade.
Currently I'm working at [PwnieExpress](https://www.pwnieexpress.com/)
designing, architecting and engineering network security sensors and the cloud
platform that powers them.

I am an avid computer and network security enthusiast with a strong passion for
exploring the depths of Linux environments, though I am familiar with Windows
environments as well.

I'm endlessly driven to create, to break, and find the solutions to the
problems I uncover. There is always another bigger, deeper, and more
challenging problem to tackle and I love looking for them.

You’re welcome to peruse my
[LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/pub/sam-stelfox/2a/475/267) profile if you
are interested in learning more about my education or professional experience
or check out my participation in the
[StackExchange](http://stackexchange.com/users/33854/trueduality?tab=accounts)
sites.

If you’re in the Burlington, VT area and have a passion for electronics,
radios, fabrication processes, computer security, or programming I strongly
recommend you take a look at [Vermont’s First
Hackerspace](http://laboratoryb.org/) of which I was one of the founding
members and gave guidance as a board member for three years.

If you’d like to get ahold of me you can:

* send me a message [via email](mailto:sam@stelfox.net) (Probably the best choice)
* ping me on [Github](https://github.com/sstelfox)
* or reach out to me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/samstelfox)

## Like my Work?

All of the open source stuff I work on is either under MIT or GPLv3. Unless
otherwise noted consider code on this site MIT licensed. I’m always happy to
hear feedback on any of my projects via email.
